okay welcome to natural arch processing
the next topic is text classification so
what is text classification we want to
assign documents to predefined
categories for example based on topics
such as let's say science and technology
versus music based on languages based on
different users so we give it a set of
classes capital C and we're given a
document X and we have to determine
which classes C it belongs to there are
many different ways to do classification
the first important distinction between
them is whether you want to do
hierarchical versus flat classification
so the hierarchical classification you
have a more general topic for example
let's say business then within business
you have some additional sub categories
for example finance and management and
so on in flat cut classification you
just have one set of categories that is
not hierarchical you can also
distinguish between overlapping and non
overlapping classification so an
overlapping classification which is also
known as soft classification each
document can be classified in multiple
classes so for example a document about
the business of sports may be classified
under both business and sports
whereas in non-overlapping
classification you have to make a hard
decision and classify each dock within
exactly one class so there are many
different techniques for classifications
one is that use manual classification
using a set of rules so you can have for
example a list of all the countries in
the world all the states in the United
States and then if a document contains a
mention of those countries or States you
can classify them under geography for
example so here's an example you can
have a rule that says if you have the
world Columbia and the word University
you classify under education because
Columbia University is our University
but if you have Columbia and South
Carolina you want to classify this
document under geography because
Columbia is the capital of South
Carolina so here some of the popular
techniques for classification
therefore to two general categories one
is the so called generative models which
include K nearest neighbors and
naivebayes and another one is describe
which includes SVM's or support vector
machines and regression
so in generative classification you have
to model the joint probability of x and
y where x is the document and y is the
class and then you use Bayesian
prediction to compute the probability of
the class given the document in
discriminative classification you have
to model the probability of Y given X
directly without using the joint
probability so for document
classification and also for clustering
which is one of the topics that we'll
cover later on the documents are
presented exactly the same way as for
documentary Tivo
so typically use the vector based
presentation have words you know like
cat and dog in each of those corresponds
to a single dimension in the vector
space and you can also use as dimensions
things like document length and author
name and other metadata features in
addition to the words themselves so each
document is represented as a vector in
an n-dimensional space and the idea is
that similar documents are going to
appear nearby in the vector space so you
have to use distance measure such as the
ones used for documentary TV offers such
as cosine similarity the jacquard
coefficient and so on so let's look at
naive Bayesian classification the basic
classification you have a very simple
idea we have looked at this example
before under text summarization so you
can skip this slide if you remember it
here I'm going to describe it in a
slightly different way that is directly
relevant to document classification so
what is the set up we give it a document
D and we want to find out what is the
probability that this document belongs
to certain Class C given that it
includes features F 1 to F K so
according to the Bayesian formula we can
rewrite this formula as the probability
of the feature set given that the
document is in the class and then
normalized by the probability of the
document being in the class in the first
place
divided by the probability of seeing
this particular combination of features
so now given that we have a joint
probability distribution of all the
features we typically run into pores if
we have a lot of different features so
we want to use the leaf basin assumption
and assume that the
features are statistically independent
so in that case the formula changes into
the one below so the probability of the
document being in the class given the
features that describe it is just going
to be equal to the product of all of the
conditional probabilities for each
individual feature given the document is
in the class times the probability
Locker is in the class this whole
product divided by the product of the
probabilities of the individual features
so the features are typically words and
phrases and sometimes metadata so
several dishes would nail base that we
have to solve our where do we get the
values well for example how do we find
the probability the document is in a
particular class so for this purpose we
use maximum likelihood estimation which
is dividing the number of times it
appears in the class in the training
data by the total number of documents in
the collection so you can also compute
the conditional probabilities in a
similar way we assume that they're
generated using a multinomial generator
the maximum likelihood estimator is just
going to be the number of times they
appear divided by the total number of
occurrences so we need to do smoothing
just like in the statistical parsing
section of the class if the frequencies
are low and one possible type of
smoothing that can be used is laplacian
smoothing where we add one count to each
of the occurrences and then we divide by
a normalized sum so it's very important
when you do naive Bayes to implement
everything correctly you since you're
going to be multiplying a lot of small
numbers you may run into floating-point
under flow and in that case it's much
better to take the logarithms of each of
those values so instead of having
something like 10 to the minus 30 eighth
power you would just have the number
minus 30 and then if you want to
multiply multiple values in the numbers
space in their logarithmic space you
will just have to add the logarithms
let's look at a specific example of text
classification the problem of spam
recognition so here's a message that
many of you have may have received some
years back you get an email
sent randomly to you that says I'm sick
and I want you to help me save my
investments I'm going to give you a
commission but in order to do this you
have to first send me some deposit so
that I can use it to withdrawal the
money from my bank so those are very
typical examples of spam messages so how
do you recognize spam automatically
using text classification well there are
techniques based on the Bayesian
classification such as spam assassin
it's an open source project as part of
the Apache foundation so if you go to
the website that corresponds to spam
assassin you can look at the different
tests that it performs on every message
that gets sent to email to you
so those tests are essentially ways to
compute features which are then combined
together to determine the score of a
message to give some examples does the
body incorporate a tracking ID number if
yes then a certain number of points will
be added to the spam score for that
document looking at the body of the
email message are the HTML and text
parts different again if yes that
indicates a larger probability that this
document is a spam message header is the
date three to six hours before the
received date so that means that there
has been a large meaning to many
different recipients and the messages
got delayed so again this is another
feature that indicates that the message
may be spam so here's some more examples
the body the HTML font size is huge
there's an attempt to obfuscate words in
the subject so for example you take some
common word that appears in spam emails
and you replace the letter I with an
exclamation point or something like that
so that the spam filter is just looking
for that particular words are not going
to catch it and you can also have
different sorts of regular expressions
that correspond to some of the most
typical spam messages so for example
anything that includes urgent transfer
of money warning reply proposal
notification and so on endure amounts is
going to be labeled as spam so how do I
determine which features are
important to include in the name based
classifier not every feature is
important so some features may in fact
be completely irrelevant to the
classification process so one of the
techniques that is used a lot is the
so-called chi-square test so Chi square
is just capital Greek letter Chi and
it's computed in the following way
you're given a specific term or feature
T and then you want to compute how many
times that feature appears in relation
to the number of occurrences of each of
the individual classes so let me explain
what this table represents c0 means that
the particular document is not spam C
equals 1 means that the document is spam
I sub T equals 0 means that that
particular term or feature is not
present in the document and I equals 1
means that that particular feature is
present in the document so we have again
four cells in this contingency table so
we can check whether the feature in the
class are independent if the probability
of for example getting the class Z
equals 0 and the feature equals 0 is
equal to the probability of 1 times the
probability of the other that means that
the two are independent the more
different the two are the more likely it
is that that feature is informative
about that particular class and if the
probability of the the joint probability
is larger than the product of the
marginal probabilities that means that
the feature is positively correlated
with the class and if it is negative
that means that the feature is
negatively correlated with a class or
it's positively correlated with a
negative class so we can compute those
probabilities from the contingency table
so for that the probability that the
class is 0 is just the sum of the counts
for case 0 0 in case you know one more
lies by n where n is the total number of
documents the probability of TAS equals
1 is just the sum of the values in the
second of all k10 passed k 1 1 divided
by n the probability of I T equals 0 is
equal to K 0 0 passed K 1 0 again
normalized by N and so on so how do we
compute the chi-square value whether
is a very simple formula for it which is
given here you just plug in the values
of the numbers on the two diagonals K 0
0 and K 1 1 and then K 1 0 and K 0 1 and
you also plug in N which is the sum of
all the different case so the value that
you get here is the chi-square score for
the particular feature high values of
chi-square indicate lower belief in
Independence which also means that that
feature is important and indicative of
the positive class so typically a
chi-square value of 5 6 or 10 means that
this feature is very good it should be
included in the classification process
so in practice what you want to do is to
compute the chi-square value for all the
words or features and to pick the top K
among them and another important
criterion is since you're computing
those numbers from the training set you
can always run into a risk that those
words may not even appear in the test
set so that's why it's important not
just to pick the words or the features
that have high chi-square values but you
also want to pick some that have
relatively small yet non-zero chi-square
values but which are likely to appear in
the test set so let's quickly look at
some of the most well known data sets
used for text classification evaluation
those include 20 newsgroups which is a
collection of articles from the Usenet
groups on sports and politics and
Technology avoid s21 578 which is a
collection about 20,000 documents from
Reuters collected in different from
different categories and those are
mostly business news articles about
future exchanges web KB which can be
extracted from the CMU website has to
deal with web pages about departments
and people and courses and rcv one is
the Reuters collection which has many
more documents than the original Reuters
21 578 so how do we evaluate text
classification one possibilities to do
micro averaging of all the performances
which of the classes or macro averaging
which just means to use a pool table of
the performances
so let's look a little bit more at
vector space classification so we have
some other techniques that are not based
on native base we have in this example
here x1 as one of the dimensions
that's corresponds to one of the terms
in the documents and x2 is another
dimension and we have documents
representing vector spaces being of one
of the two classes for example topic 1
is represented as red circles and topic
2 is represented as stars so in fact the
space classification we want to find
some decision boundary that separates
the circles from their stars so one
possibility is to just take a marker and
circle the elements that belong to one
of the classes and decided this is the
decision boundary so the point is that
if you build this kind of decision
boundary on the training data it will
not be working correctly on the test
data because of overfitting it will be
too specific to the training data so
it's important to come up with a
decision surface that has relatively
small complexities for example a
straight line or hyperplane rather than
something that cannot be described in a
few parameters so what possibilities use
decision trees in vector space so we can
have a set of horizontal and vertical
lines in this example and we can have a
classifier that says looking at the
vertical dotted line if the document is
to the right of that dotted line then
classified as a star else now we're
starting to look at the two horizontal
lines if it's above the upper horizontal
line classified as a star if it's below
the lower horizontal line classified as
a star and else classified as a circle
so in this case we're going to have a
decision tree with four nodes and each
of the nodes will correspond to one of
the classes and ambiguous to either the
star or the circle so obviously is much
better to come up with a linear boundary
so that we don't over fit the data so in
this example here we have a straight
line that corresponds to the decision
boundary and as you can probably notice
easily it makes a mistake
it classifies correctly seven out of the
eight documents but it incorrectly
labels one of the documents as a circle
even though it's actually a star so
let's look at some examples of different
vectors based classifiers so one of the
techniques that is used is to build the
centroid for each of the clusters so
just a reminder the centroid is a vector
that corresponds to the weighted sum of
all the vectors that belong to the class
and then we want to build a line a
straight line that is equidistant from
the two centroids or hyperplane it's
equidistant from the two centroids as a
decision boundary so if the decision
boundary is given in the equation w1 x1
plus w2 x2 equals B let me explain what
are those values so w1 and w2 are
weights x1 and x2 are the coordinates of
the vector in the two dimensions X 1 and
X B and B is the so-called bias if B is
equal to 0 we essentially saying that
the two classes are don't have any prior
distinction between them and if B is
different then it can be in favor of one
or two classes by default so w1 x1 plus
w2 x2 equals B is the equation of a line
that separates the two classes then if
for any new document' we have a value of
w1 x1 plus w2 x2 greater than B that
means that it's classified in the
positive class and similarly if it's
less than B we classified in the
negative class in the more general case
in n dimensional spaces we have an
extension of the same formula we just
have the weight vector transposed to
multiply the dot product with the X
vector of the document and we want to
check if the result is B in which case
the document falls on the decision
boundary or if it's greater than or less
than B in which case we can classify it
let's look at an example in
two-dimensional space the decision
boundary that corresponds to the two
classes and here even though it has an
error is the dotted line and then it
corresponds to the normal vector W which
is orthogonal to the decision boundary
so if we have any document that is for
example the star that
lowest on this page its dot product with
the weight vector is going to be
positive because the angle is less than
90 degrees and therefore it will be
labeled as class star and if we have one
of the circles each of those is going to
have an angle greater than 90 degrees
with the weight vector and therefore it
will be labeled in the circle class so
let's see how we can do this in practice
with some specific numbers so what is
the setting the setting is that we
already have the weight vectors that
correspond to the decision boundary and
we receive a new document and we want to
decide how to classify so here the
weights we have two columns that
correspond to the words a2 F which have
positive weights because they are
associated with the positive class and
then the set of words G to L with
negative weights that correspond to the
negative class and let's assume for
simplicity that the bias is equal to
zero so now a new document comes in
which has one instance of the word a one
instance of word D and one e and one H
so how do we classify this document well
we can essentially compute the dot
product of this vector with the weight
vector and here's how this is done zero
point six times one means that the word
a appears once in the document and its
weight in the decision boundary vector
is zero point six then we have zero
point four times one for D which also
appears in the left column and then zero
point four times 1/4 would e and finally
for H which is in the other column we
have minus 0.5 times one if we add all
those numbers together we get a score of
zero point nine which is greater than
zero and therefore we're going to
classify this document in the positive
class I mean this should be pretty
obvious by looking at the table if
instead of e we have G then there will
be a lot more evidence in favor of the
negative class and we will therefore
classify the document in the negative
class and let's look very quickly at a
very important algorithm called the
perceptron algorithm that is used in
machine learning for classification
obviously this is not the right class to
discuss it in detail we can take
classroom machine learning to find out
more about it I'm just going to sketch
its use so for the perceptron we have as
input the following data S which is a
set of training vectors and their
classes so x1 is a director of a
document it was labeled with y1 where
one being one corresponds to the
positive class y1 equals minus one
corresponds to the negative class we
have n such training examples and we
also have a parameter etta which is used
to determine how fast the algorithm is
going to converge the algorithm itself
is just seven or eight lines of code
these how it works our goal remember is
to learn the set of weights W and we're
going to do this in an iterative fashion
we are first going to assign a value of
zero to all the weights so that is the
0th iteration of W and we are going to
assign 0 to K K is just the number of
steps that we have taken then we're
going to repeat n times
the following code we're going to take
the ice element in the data and we are
going to check if the class that is
assigned to the document Y sub I matches
the dot product between the weight and
the document itself so if the two are
the same that means that the product is
going to be greater than zero and if the
two are different that means one
positive one negative then the dot
product is going to be less than zero so
what does it mean if the product is less
than equal to zero that means that Y one
has a different sign than the product W
times X which means that we have a
mismatch in the classification process
so in this case what we are going to do
is we're going to readjust the weight
vector for the K pass first iteration by
starting with the version of it in the
case iteration and adding to it at third
times y sub I times X sub I and then
we're going to increase the number K of
the number of iterations so once this
algorithm stops after n iterations we
are going to produce
w sub k so that's the set of weights now
let's see this in practice we have an
example here from Chris Bishop so here's
how it works we have a decision boundary
that is the black line that separates
the two classes black and so the red and
the blue classes now obviously doesn't
do a very good job at this point because
we have blue and red dots on both sides
of the line we want somehow to rotate
this line so that all the blue dots are
on one side and all the red dots are on
the other side so we're going to pick
one of the dots let's say the one that
is circled in green and we realize it
for this dot the decision boundary makes
a classification mistake it labels it in
the blue cluster whereas the point is
red so what's going to happen is that
now we're going to change the decision
boundary by moving the vector by adding
the red vector to the black vector and
get a new black vector that corresponds
to the normal of the decision boundary
so the new normal vector is now shown on
the right hand side and the
corresponding decision boundary has
rotated from the original one now is to
have mistakes we have both red and blue
dots on both sides of the curve now we
take the next misclassified dot the one
again shown in green it will do the same
thing we add the vector that corresponds
to that dot to the current normal vector
so the red arrow that points to the
green circle we add it to the black
vector and we get a new red vector so
that means that we rotate the decision
boundary in one more time and in this
case we can stop because we have a
decision boundary that correctly
classifies the red dots from the blue
dots so whatever their normal vector is
here those are the sets of weights that
we want to return as part of this
algorithm okay so this concludes the
section about the perceptron let's
quickly look at one more technique for
text classification namely the
generative model known as K nearest
neighbors in K nearest neighbors what we
want to do is to take each of the
vectors in
training data and to figure out what
other vectors dis closest to and then we
want to classify each vector based on
the majority of the vectors that are
closest to it so it's so-called K
nearest neighbors where K is typically
an odd number so that there's no
equality so here's how we do this we can
compute the score for a cluster in a
document C and D using a sum of a bias
for the class some sort of prior belief
that a random document is belongs to
that class plus the sum of all the
documents that are in the K nearest
neighbors of the document we're trying
to classify and the similarity of that
document to those neighbors and then we
can rank the classes based on this score
it's very easy to program the K nearest
neighbor algorithm however there's some
issues we need to figure out what are
the values of K and B at K again has to
be an odd number it shouldn't be one
typically values of T and 5 often work
reasonably well and the value of B is
the bias which again corresponds to the
prior belief that that particular class
is more frequent than the others and
there's a nice online demo of K nearest
neighbors at this URL here so I'm going
to stop here with a segment and we're
going to continue soon with the next one